Nowadays, distance-learning programs have gained popularity, but some people argue that online courses can never be as good as those taken at a college or university in person. To what extent do you agree or disagree?
The increase in the production of consumer goods results in damage to the natural environment. What are the causes of this? What can be done to solve this problem?
Some people think international events such as the Olympic Games are important and can bring nations together. Others, however, think that they are a waste of money as the money could be spent elsewhere on more important issues. Discuss both these views and give your own opinion.
Some people think that dangerous sports should be banned. Others, however, believe that people should be free to choose sports activities. Discuss both these views and give your own opinion.
In today’s world, people spend a lot of money on appearance because they want to look younger. Why does this happen? Do you think this is a positive or negative development?
In many countries, people now wear western clothes such as suits and jeans rather than traditional clothing. Why is this the case? Is this a positive or negative development?
Many governments think that economic progress is their most important goal. Some people, however, think that other types of progress are equally important for a country. Discuss both these views and give your own opinion.
Some people think visual images, such as photographs and videos, can most accurately inform people about a news story. Others believe they are not reliable sources of information. Discuss both views and give your own opinion.
These days, older people who have retired often choose to spend money on themselves (for example on holidays) rather than save money for their children. Is this a positive or negative development?
Advanced technology has brought many beneficial changes to the world. However, some old people today struggle with the use of technologies such as mobile phones and the Internet. How can the elderly benefit from using advanced technologies? How can the elderly be encouraged to use consumer electronics more often?
Recent advances in medicine have resulted in an increase in life expectancy over the past four years. Do you think that the advantages outweigh the disadvantages?
The best way to make the road transport of goods safer is to ask drivers to take a driving test each year. To what extent do you agree or disagree?
Although, it is generally illegal corporal punishment continues in many countries. Others argue that parents should have the right to punish their children in this way. Do you agree or disagree with this statement?
The increasing demand for oil and gas has made it necessary to look for these energy sources in remote and untouched natural places. Do you think the advantages of locating oil and gas in these areas outweigh the disadvantages of damaging these places?
Some people think the primary purpose of schools is to turn children into good citizens and workers, rather than to benefit them as individuals. To what extent do you agree or disagree with this opinion?
Some people think it is a better way to leave their home country to improve their work and living opportunities, while others think staying in their own country is a better choice. Discuss both views and give your own opinion.
In many cities, planners tend to arrange shops, schools, offices, and homes in specific areas and separate them from each other. Do you think the advantages of this policy outweigh the disadvantages?
It’s more important for school children to learn about their local history than world history. To what extent do you agree or disagree？
Nowadays many people prefer to buy famous brands of clothes, cars and other items. What are the reasons for this? Do you think it is a positive or negative development?
In many workplaces, online communication is becoming more commonplace than face-to-face meetings. To what extent do you agree or disagree with this statement?
Some people believe that violence in the media, such as in television programs and films, directly results in violent behaviour. To what extent do you agree or disagree?
In the future, all cars, buses and trucks will be driverless. The only people travelling inside these vehicles will be passengers. Do you think that the advantages of driverless vehicles outweigh the disadvantages?
In many countries, children are becoming overweight and unhealthy. Some people think that the government has the responsibility to solve this problem. To what extent do you agree or disagree?
In some countries, there has been an increase in the number of advertisements that try to persuade children to buy snacks, toys, and other goods. Some people claim this is unfair as parents feel under pressure to buy these kinds of things for their children. To what extent do you agree or disagree?
Some believe that younger family members should be legally responsible for supporting older family members when they become physically, mentally and financially unable to look after themselves. To what extent do you agree or disagree?
In the 21st century, contact between many different parts of the world has developed rapidly through air travel and telecommunications. Do the advantages of this outweigh the disadvantages?
Weddings are getting bigger and more expensive. What is the reason for this? Is it a positive or negative development?
Educating young people is naturally important. However, some think governments ought to invest more in education for adults in need. To what extent do you agree or disagree?
In some places, old age is valued, while in other cultures youth is considered more important. Discuss both views and give your opinion.
A rise in the standard of living in a country often only seems to benefit cities rather than rural areas. What problems can this cause? How might these problems be reduced?
Some people think that personal happiness is directly related to economic success. Others argue that happiness depends on different factors. Discuss both views and give your opinion.
Some people think that the best way to succeed in life is to get a university education, while others disagree and say that it is no longer true nowadays. Discuss both views and give your own opinions.
In many countries, plastic shopping bags are the main source of rubbish. They cause water and land pollution, and so they should be banned. To what extent do you agree with this statement?
Information technology is changing many aspects of our lives and now dominates our home, leisure and work activities. To what extent do the benefits of information technology outweigh the disadvantages?
Some people think that schools are no longer necessary because people can acquire information on the Internet. To what extent do you agree or disagree?
Some people believe that university students should pay all the costs of studies because university education only benefits students themselves, not society as a whole. To what extent do you agree or disagree?
Some think increasing business and cultural contact between nations is positive. Others think it leads to the disappearance of the national identity. Discuss both views and state your own opinion.
Some people think that schools should select students according to their academic abilities, while others believe that it is better to have students with different abilities studying together. Discuss both views and state your own opinion.
Many people like to eat unhealthy food even though they know it’s bad for them. Why? What are the most effective ways to improve people’s eating habits?
Some people think there are not many things individuals can do to resolve environmental problems, while others believe that in order to tackle environmental problems individuals also need to take action. Discuss both views and give your own opinion.
There is too much noise in many public places in cities. What are the causes of this problem? What can be done to solve the problem?
Crime rates will fall as advances in technology make it easier to detect and prevent crimes. To what extent do you agree or disagree?
In many situations, people who break the law should be warned instead of punished. To what extent do you agree or disagree?.
Some people think employers should not care about the way their employees dress, but the quality of work. To what extent do you agree or disagree?
Some people think children should have the freedom to make mistakes, while other people believe that adults should prevent children from making mistakes. Discuss both sides and give your opinion
Although more and more people read news on the Internet, newspapers will remain the most important source of news for the majority of people. To what extent do you agree or disagree?
Some students take one year off between finishing high school and going to university, in order to travel or to work. Do you think the advantages outweigh the disadvantages?
Today, many people do not know their neighbours in large cities. What problems does this cause? What can be done about this?
An increasing number of developing countries are expanding their tourist industry. Why do you think it is the case? Do you think it is a positive or negative development?
Nowadays, more and more people from different cities are spending more time away from their families. What are the possible reasons and the effects on the people themselves and their families?
Some people say that nowadays children have an easy life, and some people think that the life of children was easier in the past. Discuss both points of view and also provide relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience.
Some people feel that the effects of advertising are positive for individuals and businesses, while others think they are negative. Discuss both sides and give your own opinion.
Some people say that TV advertisements are helpful for viewers, while others disagree. What is your opinion?
Some people think the spread of multinational companies and globalization produce positive outcomes for everyone. Do you agree or disagree with this statement?
In some countries, there are fewer young people who listen to or play classical music these days. Why is this? Should young people be encouraged to play or perform classical music?
Directors of large organizations earn much higher salaries than ordinary employees do. Some people think it is necessary, but others are of the opinion that it is unfair. Discuss both views and give your own opinions.
Prison is the common way in most countries try to solve the problem of crime. However, a more effective solution is to provide people with a better education. Do you agree or disagree?
Some think that climate change reforms will negatively affect business. Others feel they are an opportunity for businesses. Discuss both sides and give your own opinion.
Some people argue that holding sporting events is beneficial to a country’s development. However, other people hold the opposite opinion. Discuss both views and give your own opinion.
The first man to walk on the moon claimed it was a step forward for mankind. However, it has made little difference in most people’s lives. To what extent do you agree or disagree?
Some people think that good teamwork makes a company successful, others think that good leadership is the reason behind the success of a company. Discuss both sides and give your opinion.
Nowadays more and more people want to get things done instantly. Why is it? Do you think it is a positive or negative development?
Some people think that it is a waste of time for high school students to study literature, such as novels and poems. To what extent do you agree or disagree?
In some countries the elderly are highly valued and respected, while in others youth is more highly valued. Discuss both sides and give your own opinion.
The personal information of many individuals is held by large internet companies and organisations. Do you think the advantages of this outweigh the disadvantages?
Some people believe that handwriting is no longer useful in the modern world and should not be taught in schools. To what extent do you agree or disagree?
Some believe that advances in technology are increasing the gap between rich and poor while others think the opposite is happening. Discuss both sides and give your own opinion.
More and more people are finding it increasingly important to wear fashionable clothes. Is this attitude to wearing clothes a positive development or negative?
Some people believe that smart phones are destroying social interaction today. To what extent do you agree or disagree?
Some people believe that governments should ban dangerous sports. Others claim that they should have freedom to choose their favourite activities. Discuss both views and present your opinion.
Nowadays employment options are changing and employees cannot rely on having the same job and working conditions throughout their life. What are some possible causes? Suggest some ways to plan for the future under these circumstances.
Many companies sponsor sports as a way of advertising themselves. Some people think this is good for the world of sport, while others think it is negative. Discuss both views and give your own opinion.
Governments in many countries have recently introduced special taxes on foods and beverages with high levels of sugar. Some think these taxes are a good idea while others disagree. Discuss both views and give your opinion.
Many people think technological devices such as smart phones, tablets and mobile phones bring more disadvantages than advantages. To what extent do you agree or disagree?
It is better for children if the whole family including aunts, uncles and grandparents are involved in a child’s upbringing, rather than just their parents. To what extent do you agree or disagree?
Most people prefer shopping in supermarkets nowadays. How does this affect the local shops? What are the positive and negative impacts of this development?
In many countries, fast food is becoming cheaper and more widely available. Do the disadvantages of this outweigh the advantages?
The government should lower the budget on the arts in order to allocate more money to education.To what extent do you agree?
Many people argue that eating junk food has led to an unhealthy lifestyle. This problem has become more common among young people these days. Do you agree or disagree that junk food is the cause of the issue?
Some people think that in order to produce a happy society, it is necessary to ensure that there is only a small difference between the earnings of the richest and poorest. To what extent do you agree or disagree?
The manufacturing and use of cars damages the environment but their popularity is increasing. Why is this happening? How could this be controlled?
Some people think that young people should go to university to further their education while others think they should be encouraged to work as car mechanics or builders etc.to serve society. Discuss both views and give your own opinion.
Some people believe that to give opportunities to the new generation companies should encourage high-level employees who are older than 55 to retire. Do you agree or disagree?
Nowadays celebrities earn more money than politicians. What are the reasons for this? Is it a positive or negative development?
Many people believe that countries should produce food for the whole population and import as little food as possible. To what extent do you agree or disagree?
Some people think that it is necessary to travel abroad to learn about other countries, but others think that it is not necessary to travel abroad because all the information can be seen on TV and the internet. Discuss both views and give your own opinion.
Why are some people who leave school early more successful compared with those who complete their studies. Provide reasons why they are more successful and what are the requirements for success?
Countries with long average working hours are economically more successful than those countries which do not work long hours. To what extent do you agree or disagree?
Many students around the world don’t choose science subjects at university. Give the reasons for this and describe the impact on the community?
It is better for young people to get advice from old people than young ones. Do you agree or disagree?
Some people think that music plays an important role in society. Others think it is simply a form of entertainment. Discuss both sides and give your opinion.
Some people think that job satisfaction is more important than job security. Others think that people cannot expect to enjoy a job and that having a permanent job is more important. Discuss both views and give your opinion.
Some people say that technologies such as mobile phones are disrupting social interaction. Do you agree or disagree?
Some people think history has little or nothing to offer, while others say the study of the past helps us understand the present. Write on both views and give your opinion, citing examples from your experience
Some people think that zoos are cruel and all the zoos should be closed. However, others think that zoos are useful to protect rare animals. Discuss both views and give your own opinion.
Some people think that the best way to stay fit is to join a gym/health club while others think doing everyday activities such as walking and climbing stairs is sufficient. Discuss both views and give your opinion.
Nowadays online shopping is extremely popular. Discuss the impact of it on the environment and on people who lost their jobs because of it.
Nowadays celebrities earn more money than politicians. What are the reasons for this? Is it a positive or negative development?
Many people think that every individual is responsible for their happiness, but some people believe there are other external factors that influence us. Discuss both views and give your opinion.
It is too expensive to look after and repair old buildings. This money should be spent on building modern buildings instead. To what extent do you agree or disagree with this opinion?
Scientific research should be the responsibility of governments rather than commercial organizations. Do you agree or disagree with this statement?
Some people believe that women should be treated as equal to men when applying for a job with police or the military. Others think women are less suitable for this kind of job. Discuss both views and give your opinion.
Some people prefer to work in the same type of job throughout their lifetime while others like to change the type of job they do. Discuss both views and give your opinion.
Some people think that it is fine for professional sportsmen and sportswomen to misbehave on or off the field, as long as they are playing well. Do you agree or disagree with this statement?
People are becoming too dependent on the Internet and phone. Is it a positive or negative development?
Some people suggest that it is better for children to be brought up by the whole family including uncles, aunts and grandparents, rather than just the parents. Do you agree or disagree with this statement? Give your opinion and examples.
Some people think that the government should increase tax on unhealthy food to encourage people to start eating healthy. Do you agree or disagree?
Nowadays, people are spending more time away from their homes because they spend longer in their workplace. Discuss the advantages and disadvantages.
Nowadays, a few people take their family with them abroad whenever they go on a business trip. What are the advantages and disadvantages for them and for their family?
Many parents complain about violence promoted to their children through video games, TV programs and other media. Why is it happening? What can be the solution for it?